We've now got a working demonstration of how to create custom errors, how to throw them from our different
route handlers, how to capture them inside of our air handler and send back a very common response
for every different kind of error.
But we're not quite done yet.
I want to point out something not so great about the current implementation of our error handling middleware.
Right now we are throwing our request validation error and the database connection error into that error
handling middleware.
And we've encoded inside there some very intricate knowledge of exactly how to extract information from
every kind of error that exists inside of our application.
Now present, that's just two errors.
So it's not that big a deal.
Let's imagine some scenario down the line where maybe we have a lot of different things that can go
wrong inside of our application and we create a custom error for everything that can go wrong.
And so we end up with all these different custom errors like this.
If we travel down the same road that we're going down right now, our error handling middleware is going
to be grow to be absolutely gigantic.
We will have to encode some logic inside there to understand every possible error and understand how
to extract information from them to send down to a user making sure that they all follow this same kind
of common response structure.
So right now, if we continue down the same path, we're going to end up with our area handling middleware
growing to be extremely, extremely large.
So how can we fix this?
Well, we're going to kind of inverse or take the opposite of this relationship.
We're going to go back and revisit our request validation error and the database connection error.
We're going to add in a method to each of these called serialize error.
The goal of this method is to take all the information about the error.
So whatever fields failed validation or some reason that we fail to connect to the database and we're
going to return some array of objects that follow this kind of common air structure right here.
So an array of objects that have that message, that's a string and a possibly a field that is a string
as well.
We're also going to make sure that all these different errors list a status code to send down as well.
Once we do this, our air handler middleware is no longer going to have to understand how to precisely
parse and somehow interpret a request validation error.
Instead, the error handling middleware can just verify to make sure that the incoming error is of type
request validation error or database connection error.
Once it makes sure that it's an error that it understands.
It can then call that errors serialize their property and get back some very customized, very well
formed structure to describe what just went wrong and send that back to the user.
It can also refer to the errors status code to understand what status code to use inside the response
as well.
Once we start to follow this approach, we can create as many air custom classes as we want.
We can make a billion of these different things all very custom in nature.
Each one can have its own special implementation.
And the air handling middleware is not going to grow in much complexity because no matter what the air
is, we're always going to refer to the same kind of serialized air function and the same status code
property.
Okay.
So then mind, let's go back over to our editor.
We're going to start to refactor database connection, error and our the other one that's behind the
scenes here, the request validation.
One, we're going to make sure that they both have a serialized error method and a status code property
as well.
And we're going to make sure that the error handler uses those methods and those properties as opposed
to trying to generate this formatted error stuff on its own.
All right.
So let's first start off with how about database connection error?
So here it is right here.
So inside of database connection there, we're going to add in that serialize errors method.
And inside of here we're going to make sure that we return this common error structure specifically.
I really just want to return the array of objects that have a message and the field.
We will still allow our error handling middleware to create this actual object and assign the errors
property to it.
So inside of database connection error, I've got serialize errors.
We're going to return an array of objects.
In this case, the object that we're going to create is very simple.
It's always going to be one single error object that's going to list this reason as the message.
So we can say Message is this reason.
And then in addition, I'm also going to assign a status code to this.
So if we're going to say any time a database connection error occurs, let's give the response a status
code of 500.
Now, in this case, again, I want to remind you that database connection error is very simplistic
in nature.
Yes, we don't really need to define the separate property of reason right here.
We could just take that string and throw it in as the message.
The only reason that we are creating this entire database connection error class is that you have a
second example to look at beyond just request validation error.
The other error class we created.
Okay.
So that's it for this one.
So I'm going to save this file.
Well, then go over to request validation error.
Also inside of our ears directory.
I'm going to give this one a status code as well.
Of 400 in this case.
And then I will give it that serialize errors property.
And we can really just take the code that we already wrote out inside of our era handling middleware.
So I'm going to go back over to the air handler.
You'll recall that we mapped over the errors.
And for each error, we returned an object that a message and a field.
So we essentially want to do that same thing inside of this serialize error function.
Right here, I'm going to return the result of this dot air's map.
I'm going to take each error which I will abbreviate as error and then return.
Message with error message.
And a field with e r dot ram.
Okay.
So now our two errors both follow the same kind of structure.
They both have the serialized errors method, and they both have status code.
So now back inside of our error handling middleware, here it is right here.
We no longer have to encode all this fancy logic into this middleware so we can delete all that fancy
logic.
We can also do the same thing down here for the database connection here as well.
So we no longer have to encode this entire special array right here, which is kind of assuming that
we have a lot of special knowledge about how database connection air works.
I'm going to delete that too.
Also formatted errors goes away up here because that variable doesn't exist anymore.
So now in both cases, we want to take a look at that incoming air and we're going to call these serialize
errors function on both them.
That's going to give us back that array of objects that we want so, so badly.
Apparently.
I'm definitely making it seem like it's a very desirable thing to have.
So in both cases we'll do e r r dot serialize errors.
And then same thing down here as well.
And that should be it.
You'll now notice that we have an identical statement here with both these statements.
Once we have verified that we have either a request, validation error or a database connection error,
were then very sure that we pretty much always want to do the same thing of getting serialize errors.
One other thing that we want to take care of is the status codes on both them as well.
So now our middleware doesn't need to know about the precise status code to use for any kind of error.
Instead, it just knows to take a look at the errors status code property.
So I'm going to replace the 400 right there with IRC status code and the 500 right here with error status.
Code as well.
Well, he's definitely look very identical in nature.
And as you can guess, we're probably going to combine these two statements at some point.
But for right now, let's just save this and do another quick test to make sure that everything is still
working as expected.
So back over at man.
I'm going to first try out the database connection here stuff.
I'm going to send that off.
Yep.
Still get the correct error.
And if I put in an invalid email.
Yup.
Still get the correct ear as well.
All right.
So right away, you can start to see that we are going to extract a lot of logic out of this area,
handling middleware, and we're going to delegate, figuring out how to produce the correct structure
of errors and the correct status code in each error instead.
This is looking pretty good, but we still have one or two very small improvements.
So quick pause right here and I'll see you in just a minute.